<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Mechanics of Functions

<div class="slide-link"><a href="https://go.raybo.org/2OXU"><i class="fab fa-slideshare"></i> go.raybo.org/2OXU</a></div>

> >

A function is a series of statements that are grouped together to perform specific tasks.

---

# Basics

```js
function NAME(PARAMETERS,...) {
  STATEMENTS;...
  return VALUE;
}
```

- The `function` keyword
- Followed by a `name`
- Optional `parameters`
- `Statements` in curly braces
- `return` statement

> >

Regular functions are created using the `function` keyword.

After this keyword, a name is given to the function. There are some specific rules. We'll talk about them in a bit.

In Parenthesis, you can specify optional parameters. That means that you can pass values to the functions and those become variables inside the function.

You can then add a series of statements inside curly braces. Each of those statements is usually separated by semicolons.

There's a special statement you can use inside a function to return a value when the function is executed.

---

# Starting Code

```js
const $ = document.querySelector.bind(document);
const output = "Hello World";

$("#output").innerHTML = output;
console.log(output);
```

[Try It](https://github.dev/LinkedInLearning/javascript-functions-2502735/tree/01_02b)

> >

Let's use CodeSpaces to try this out.

You'll notice that I've started you out with some code already. Let's talk about what that's setting up before we get into our function.

I've set up two sample ways to output our code.

```js
const $ = document.querySelector.bind(document);
const output = 'HellO World';

$("#output").innerHTML = output;
console.log(output);
```

You can see that I'm setting up a dollar sign variable that gives JavaScript access to the document. It's really just a shortcut ot the DOM or document object model.

Then I'm setting up a variable called output that I'm going to use to output the value.

Using our dollar sign object, we can target an element in the HTML with an ID of output.

The HTML for our page is in the canvas.html file, which you can get to in the explorer.

Then I'm using the innerHTML property to set the value of the element to our ouput variable. That's what writing the hello world to our page.

The other and much simpler way to output things is to use the console.log command. This is great for demos, but most of the time when I'm coding, I'm doing things on the page, so I wanted to show you both options.

---

# Writing a Function

```js
function add(a, b) {
  let c = a + b;
  return c;
}
const output = add(2,2);
```

[Try It](https://github.dev/LinkedInLearning/javascript-functions-2502735/tree/01_02b)

> >

Let's use CodeSpaces to try this out.


---

# Variable Name Rules

- Uppercase or lowercase names
- Not a reserved word
- 0-9, but can't begin with a number
- `$` or `_` or other [Unicode Characters](https://codepoints.net/search?IDS=1)
- Check your [variable name](https://go.raybo.org/9Lhh)

> >

Before we keep going, let's talk a bit about the rules behind variable names.

You can use uppercase or lowercase letters and type in most normal names.

However, you can't use the names of any reserved words like (for, break, if, null, etc.)

You can also use numbers, but you can't begin a variable name with a number.

You can use the dollar sign as a variable as well as the underscore by themselves. In addition to that, you can use a number of [Unicode Characters](https://codepoints.net/search?IDS=1).

There's a great website where you can type in your [variable name](https://go.raybo.org/9Lhh) and it will tell you wether it's valid.

