---
title: Working with Tailwind CSS 3
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Working with Tailwind CSS 3

<!-- <div class="slide-link"><a href="https://go.raybo.org/49qn"><i class="fab fa-slideshare"></i> go.raybo.org/49qn</a></div> -->

> >

Tailwind is a bit different than other tools. It analyzes your HTML and JavaScript files and generates CSS based on what it finds.

---

# Build Options

- [CLI](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation)
- [Using Post CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation/using-postcss)
- [Frameworks](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation/framework-guides)
- [Play CDN](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation/play-cdn)

> >

This means that unlike frameworks like Bootstrap where you can simple refer to a script, Tailwind requires a build process. Let's take a look at the options.

The most straightforward way is to use the Command Line Interface or CLI. It will automatically take care of taking a peek at your HTML or JavaScript files and will create a CSS file based on those for you. This won't provide a lot of infrastructure for development though, so you won't get things like a live preview and proper build processes.

You can also install it as a Post CSS plugin. It takes a bit more work, but it works well with other build tools like Vite or Webpack. Although this is a good setup, it still doesn't give you a complete set of tools.

If you're using a framework, things get a little more complicated. Thankfully, there's a set of [detailed guides](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation/framework-guides) for a lot of different frameworks. These are excelent guides, but you're probably going to want to tweak things a bit.

You can use a CDN to play around with Tailwind CSS. Because the CDN runs some JavaScript to look at your page's code EVERY TIME it loads, this isn't something that you want to use in production, but it's an easy way to try out the features.

---

# Prerequisites/Suggestions

- [NPM](https://nodejs.org/)
- [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
- [Intellisense for VSCode](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=bradlc.vscode-tailwindcss)
- [Tailwind Docs](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=austenc.tailwind-docs)
- [CodeSwing](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=codespaces-Contrib.codeswing)

> >

Before we go through the installation, you're going to need to make sure you have a few things.

First is npm, or the Node Package Manager. In order to create projects with a build process you'll need this to manage dependencies. These are like plugins that you use to add functionality to your project.

You're also going to want to install git to keep track of this project and work with the exercises. Make sure you check the exercise files on GitHub to find out where you can get these files.

If you have Visual Studio Code, you can also install a plug-in help you auto-complete the Tailwind CSS classes.

I'm also going to recommend another a few plugins for you that can make your life easier when working with Tailwind or Web Projects.

First is intellisense for Tailwind CSS. It will give you suggestions when writing Tailwind CSS code.

Next is Tailwind Docs. It will give you a quick reference to all the classes and utilities that Tailwind CSS provides.

Finally, Live Server is a great tool that will automatically reload your page when you make changes.

There's also an extension called CodeSwing that will help when we get to the individual examples.

Now that you know what you need, let's keep going.

---

# Build Tool Needs

- Analyze Files
- Generate CSS
- Live Development Preview
- Build Process

> >

Since there are so many options for build tools, lets talk about what you when working with a build tool.

Tailwind CSS needs to look at the files you're creating...like your HTML and JavaScript files and analyze them to see if there's any Tailwind CSS code in them.

It then needs to generate a CSS file based on that analysis and place that in a new directory.

You probably want something that offers ways to process your other files, let you create a build process that lets you use javascript modules and all of the other traditional things a build tool does.

Finally, it's real nice to have a live preview of your changes whenever you update.

For that reason, I'm going to pick Vite. It's a pretty modern build tool. The guide assumes that you're going to use Vite with Vue.js, which isn't necessary for this project, so I'm going to change things around a bit.
