---
title: Utility First
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Utility First

> >

Tailwind CSS uses a technique called Utility First. It allows you to design pages from a set of utilities that mirror existing CSS styles.

---

# Utility First

- No unclear class names
- Clear intent
- No overrides
- Mirrors CSS

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/ExbLvvJ?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>
<a href="https://tailwindcss.com/docs/utility-first" target="_blank"><code class="code-primary">Docs</code></a>

> >

[Comparison](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/utility-first)

Let's take a look at a comparison of the approaches from the Tailwind CSS site. With traditional CSS, you write a set of classes that identify the type of element. Traditionally, you add a sub-class based on the original that for each element you want to use.

The classes in other words are there to define the structure of the content. Then you go create some CSS that makes it look a certain way.
Contrast this with the Tailwind Approach.

You can see that Tailwind CSS classes

Obviously there are no class names to come up with or at least, you have to look up structural classes from a framework like Bootstrap to make the HTML look a certain way.

It's pretty clear what the classes do. So p-6 means you want some padding around an element that is six units in size.

You don't spend any time trying to undo styles that a framework or a parent class has established, so your CSS stops growing.

Tailwind classes closely mirror CSS classes. Chances are, if a tag exists for CSS, Tailwind already has it. One thing to watch out for is that these are sometimes classes that are not yet available in every browser.
