---
title: Shortcut Classes
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Shortcut Classes

> >

Tailwind's utility classes are designed to be exact clones of CSS classes, but there are a some classes that are really shortcuts to groups of classes. We saw an example of them in the color gradients classes. Let's take a look at some more.

---

# Font Family

`font-sans` `font-serif` `font-mono`

```js
theme: {
  fontFamily: {
    'sans': ['Helvetica', 'Arial', 'sans-serif'],
    'display': ['Custom Font', 'Other Font'],
  }
}
```

<a href="https://tailwindcss.com/docs/font-family" target="_blank"><code class="code-exciting">Docs</code></a> <a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/full/abZeMdP?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

There are three diferent classes that you can use to specify what type of font you want to use in a project. The default styles

The `font-sans` style is already applied to the page by default. By default, it will try to apply default system fonts for the styles, but you can override any of the default families by modifying the `theme.fontFamily element in `tailwind.config.js`

You can even create a new font by adding one or more elements to that object.

---

# Font Size

- `text-SIZ`
  - **SIZ** (font-size/line-height...in rems)<br>
    `xs` .75/1 `sm` .875/1.25 `base` 1/1.5 `lg` 1.125/1.75 `xl` 1.25/1.75<br>`2xl` 1.5/2 `3xl` 1.875/2.25 `4xl` 2.25/2.5 `5xl` 3/1 `6xl` 3.75/1<br>`7xl` 4.5/1 `8xl` 6/1 `9xl` 8/1

<a href="https://tailwindcss.com/docs/font-size" target="_blank"><code class="code-exciting">Docs</code></a> <a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/full/BazXEor?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

Font size is handled through the text class and you add a size option here. this changes two parameters at the same time...font-size and line-height and you can see the values here.

The size and height is in rems so it's relative to the root size of the browser, which is usually 16 pixels.

---

# Box Shadow

- `shadow(-AMT)`
  - **AMT**<br>
    `none` `inner`<br>`sm` `md` `lg` `xl` `2xl`

<a href="https://tailwindcss.com/docs/box-shadow" target="_blank"><code class="code-exciting">Docs</code></a> <a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/KKgzXpq?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

Tailwind has a simple way of adding drop shadows to box elements. There are two special sizes. none, which serves as a reset and inner which places a slight shadow effect inside the box element. It's important to note that you can't make any of the other sizes an inner size.

Then there are the traditional sizes `sm`, `md`, `lg`, `xl` and `2xl`. If you just use the keyword shadow without the size, you get a shadow that's 1 pixels wide and 3 pixels to the right. You can see them at work in the example.

---

# Screen Readers

`sr-only` `not-sr-only`

<a href="https://tailwindcss.com/docs/screen-readers" target="_blank"><code class="code-exciting">Docs</code></a> <a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/eYdRKBx?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

The `sr-only` class means that an item will only show up on screen readers and not in the browser. This may be good for textual content that is more suitable for things that are too visual.

The opposite of it is `not-sr-only`, which overrides `sr-only`. It's tough to visualize that one, so let's take a look at an example.
