---
title: State Modifiers
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# State Modifiers

> >

Tailwind CSS lets you modify your content depending on the state of certain pseudo class selectors.

---

# State

`hover`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/mdqzEpp??editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

We've seen plenty of example of this one so far. This is probably the most common state you'll use.

---

# Focus

- `focus`
- `focus-within`
- `focus-visible`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/eYePZwX?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

There's a group of states that affects an element when it has focus. So, for example this happens when you click on an element or enter an input field.

`focus`
Modify an element when it has focus the focus modifier.
​
`focus-within`
Modify an element when it a descendants has focus.
​
`focus-visible`
Modify an element when using the keyboard to focus.

---

# Links

- `active`
- `visited`
- `target`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/eYeVxJJ?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

There are a number of modifiers that let you control how links are displayed

`active`
Modify a link when it is in an active state...so for example while you're clicking it. This gives users a nice bit of extra feedback.

`visited`
Modify a link when it has already been previously visited. You've probably seen this visited state before on sites, so you can modify anything about the display of visited links with this.

`target`
This one's a bit weird. It lets you modify an element as long as the ID of the element matches the URL fragment. This appears on your URL after a hashtag. It's not particularly useful, although I think we could use this in certain instances.
