---
title: Arbitrary Sizing
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Arbitrary Sizing

> >

Although the built in sizes for content is great. One of the best features in Tailwind is the ability to specify your own custom sizes.

---

# Arbitrary Sizing

- Any measurement `w-[80%]`
- With modifiers `lg:w-[80%]`
- Arbitrary Properties `[width:80%]`

> >

This is pretty easy, you simply use brackets notation where you would use any predefined class. You can use just about any measurement that you would use in CSS just ad you'd type it.

You can also use this with modifiers to control how things work in different instances.

You can even use this to create a custom class that is the equivalent of including a style attribute within your class. Why not just use a style attribute? Well again, this will work with modifiers.

You can even use this with CSS variables because sometimes they need to be modified depending on the context.

---

# Special Instances

- Replacement `_`
- Escape using `\`
- Explicit Data Types<br>`text-[color:var(--primary)]`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/GROGWer?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

When a value needs to have a space, just use an underscore. However, if you're using an underscore to specify a url, it's smart enough to recognize that you meant an underscore.

If you need to make sure that you specify an underscore, just escape it with a backward slash.

There are some instances where you need to force a certain value type. That's because some classes like the text class can be using a variable set to different values. You can use CSS data types to force the value to be a certain type.
