---
title: Themes
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Themes

> >

The most important part of the config file is the theme section. In it, you can redefine how the theme is generated

---

# Themes

- Override [classes](https://github.com/tailwindlabs/tailwindcss/blob/master/stubs/defaultConfig.stub.js)
- Extend existing class
- Look in class docs

<a href="https://tailwindcss.com/docs/theme" target="_blank"><code class="code-primary">Docs</code></a>

> >

In the theme section you can override the available classes. That good if you want to redefine which classes get output and how they're built.

You can also use the extend property to add to the available classes.

The nice thing about Tailwind is that the documentation has a section at the bottom that shows you exactly how to override that particular class in the config document.

You can also take a look at this file to see the default configuration that's applied to a Tailwind CSS project.

---

# Overriding

```
tailwind.config = {
  theme: {
    fontWeight: {
      thin: "100",
      extralight: "200",
      light: "300",
      normal: "400",
      medium: "500",
      semibold: "600",
      bold: "700",
      extrabold: "800",
      black: "900"
    }
  }
}
```

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/KKybOWE/97c2e838b378100173cad1729ff41cca?editors=0010" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

Overriding is great if you want to change something about Tailwind CSS. So for example, one of the things I find annoying is that the scale of the names are sometimes hard to figure out.

A good example is this list of font weights. I mean, I have a hard time remembering that medium is 500 and semibold is 600. So I can just rename all of these so that they use the numbers instead of the names.

Do remember that this is a JavaScript object, so your names are going to need to be quoted if you are using names that are not valid JavaScript variables..for example...names with hyphens.

Also, you could delete any names you don't use, but remember that because Tailwind CSS only outputs the classes you're using in your HTML and CSS, it doesn't matter how many classes exist.

---

# Extending

```
module.exports = {
  theme: {
    extend: {
      colors: {
        beige: '#e3dac9',
        primary: {
          100: '#cffafe',
          200: '#a5f3fc',
          DEFAULT: '#0891b2',
          ...
        },
      },
    }
  }
}
```

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/PoOVWxp??editors=1010" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

If you want to add things to the existing set of classes, you can use the extend object. With it, you can define that an additional element be added to the list of existing elements.

A great example of this is adding color names. The cool thing is that when you add a color name, all of the classes that use colors will be available with your new name.

Now, it doesn't automatically generate the scale of the colors for you, so you can add an object that adds those to each color.
